so here's here's what we mean by the
study DLC so we've asked people so
people have asked for like more in-depth
content and so I'm gonna try to break
down how to study so in order to break
down how to study we first have to start
with understanding how the mind works so
I want you guys to start with this very
simple example okay so let's say that I
want to study like a text book so I open
up the text book I read what's on the
page and what happens after I read
what's on the page do I learn it right
so like some people are saying yes some
people are saying no some people are
saying you forget right so like let's
just pause there okay so let's start by
understanding that when I read something
on the page what can we learn from that
because we're getting a thousand
different answers the first thing to
understand is that there are variable
responses or outcomes to reading
something on a page that in and of
itself is a very important data point
right that like when you read a page
essentially you're rolling the dice and
sometimes you learn what's on the page
sometimes you don't learn that's on the
page that in and of itself is like
really weird so that happens is like why
is it that sometimes you read something
in a textbook and you understand it and
other times you don't right so we're
gonna dig into that so second thing to
think about is you know we have this
perception like if I read something if I
read a page of a textbook and then I
don't understand what's on it what
happens next like what do I do next
right so yeah so once again a lot of
different answers so one is you just
keep reading like you just move on right
so you're just like okay like I'm just
gonna read the next page like why does
you reread that the other thing is you
panic you get distracted whatever fine
so like all those things are also very
important answers so then the
interesting thing is that you know when
you read something and then you read it
again and you read it again and you read
it again like so people sometimes think
about you know learning is like a linear
process where like were the first time I
read it I get 20% the second time I read
it I'm up to 40% the third time 60% 80%
and then I have to read it five times
before I understand it and that's the
way that we approach studying right like
we sit down and we say like I just need
to read this over and over
over again until I understand it but
that's like a really bad way to study
because the main thing that I want to
dig into you dig into today with you
guys is like how is it that sometimes
you can read a like a page of a textbook
and you can understand it and other
times you don't like you guys have to
understand that there's a roll of the
dice and I think the best way to to
study is to recognize what influences
the outcome of that diary
you know what influences whether you
actually digest the material or don't
digest the material and that's the
interesting thing is like the
information is not really it's not just
in the textbook there's a process of
digestion of material which can be
worked on and no one ever teaches you
that in the main thing about the study
DLC that I want to teach you guys today
is about like how to digest material
efficient ok so this is what I want you
all to think about for a second so when
I read a piece of page what influences
whether I understand the material or I
don't understand the material so let me
ask you guys this way if I'm studying
and I'm studying in a building that's
burning down how likely do you think I
am how likely am I to understand in the
material not likely
right so I want you guys to think about
it this way so when when the mind so the
mind has different levels of activity ok
so let's say here's an act of mind and
here's a calm mind and so the more
active your mind is the harder it is for
information to sink in so this like
actually is not going to happen
whereas when the mind is calm it's easy
for information to sink in
ok so the first thing to understand
about studying is that like the more
calm or tranquil your mind the more
receptive is it it is to information and
so you really have to think a little bit
about what are the circumstances that
lead to a calm mind because if you have
a calm mind you're much more likely to
learn so the big backdrop to this is
that when I was in med school I
basically only studied for two hours a
day and I had many colleagues who
studied for like six
or eight hours or like you know just
tons and tons of studying a day and what
I really found is that like studying
more was not as good as studying better
and that if my mind was in the right
state of mind that when I read something
it would kind of sink in and I realize
the same thing that you guys did which
is that like sometimes when I read a
piece like some sometimes when I read
something I understand it and sometimes
when I don't read something I don't
understand it I mean I sometimes when I
read something I understand and
sometimes when I read something I don't
understand it which is like a weird
observation and then the first thing
that I thought is oh it must have to do
with the difficulty of the material and
the harder the material is to understand
the more I have to read it which is sort
of true but that I also realize that
sometimes there can be easy material
that I still don't absorb right like
that's kind of weird because if you
really stop and you think about you know
what you're doing there are many times
where you can read the simplest thing
and it still doesn't sink in and the
main thing that I discover was actually
like this this kind of principle here
that there's you know there's a calm
mind and there is a not calm mind so
then the question becomes what are the
ways in which to calm your mind so the
simplest thing to do if you want to
study efficiently is the first thing I'd
say is you study first thing in the
morning and there's a reason for that
okay so number one study first thing in
a.m. okay so so they're they're gonna be
counter points to this which we'll get
to so the reason is because like when
you when you start your day you tend to
be like this right and then if you think
about it like the more that your day
goes on like you're gonna get like this
so as your mind has various experiences
as you have conversations with people as
you start playing games as you like open
up Twitter your mind like is gonna
become more and more active and it's
gonna be like less tranquil as you start
thinking about stuff and the more that
you think about stuff like the harder it
is to come back to this mindset and so
some people say oh I study well in the
evening or whatever like that's that's
fine I mean that we're gonna
talk about that later but generally
speaking the mind gets wound up through
the day and this is why for most people
sleep is refreshing right so like why
does sleep help us what asleep do so as
our brain you know thinks throughout the
day
we accumulate a chemical in our brain
called adenosine an adenosine is a
byproduct or sort of the and like the
the end product of ATP which is like
energy so essentially what happens is we
like go through our day is our day our
brain starts out with the day with like
a high amount of ATP and a low amount of
adenosine and as our brain is active
throughout the day our adenosine builds
up in our ATP decreases and if any of
you guys have like any sort of
understanding of biology or cellular
biology you know what ATP is and so the
interesting thing is what asleep do what
sleep does is it it turns adenosine back
into ATP clears out adenosine of the
from the brain and what we know is that
like one of the ways in which sleep
refreshes us is by like refreshing or
ATP so what sort of does is fills up our
mana bar and so that what you want to do
is to study most efficiently you want to
study with a brain full of ATP not a
brain full of adenosine and so study
first thing in the morning there are a
couple of other reasons for that so
number one is ATP versus adenosine
okay number two is circadian rhythm so
this is gonna be challenging because a
lot of us don't have regular schedules
and some people feel like they're their
night owls or whatever and they don't
like really function that well in the
morning so our body has an
evolutionarily conserved circadian
rhythm that is like common across
mammals so if you look at mammals
anywhere we're not I mean not anywhere
but most places most mammals tend to be
most active at dawn and dusk and it's
kind of interesting because like part of
the reason that sunset and sunrise are
so beautiful is because our eyes are
actually evolved to have the highest
degree of visual acuity during sunrise
and sunset
that's why color seems so vivid it's not
like colors are magically more vivid
during that time of the day it's because
our organs of perception are designed
for maximum acuity in our maximum
receptivity of the environment during
those times and that's not that's not
just with our visual system our bodies
are designed to be active or our minds
are most designed to be active during
like dawn and dusk and so you see that
kind of conserved across mammals if you
look at like lions if you look at
monkeys if you look at like all the apes
they tend to be like the most active
around dawn and dusk so if you think
about like you know biologically most
people most humans have evolved to be
active during dawn and dusk so any kind
of mental activity that you do around
dawn and dusk are going to be on average
for most human beings in the population
there are caveats to this which we're
gonna get to is gonna be most efficient
during that time so what I would do is
is wake up at 4:30 I'd study I do like
yoga for like half an hour and meditate
and then I'd study from 5 to 7 a.m. and
then what I would do is like I you know
get ready and then I'd like go to class
around 8:00 class starts around 9:00 you
know get ready and then something cool
would happen which is like at 9:00 a.m.
I would go to class but I would have
yeah you guys say you're out just stay
with me okay
so you know at 9:00 a.m. like I would
have already read everything and I would
like understood it I would
understood things I sat down I kind of
studied it it was like super high
quality study and so you guys know how
like you wish you would have like
revised things or reviewed more like my
class would actually be the review so I
would it was like I did my review like
the first time i sat in class because
I'm kind of reviewing the material and
then when I actually studied for the
test that would be like the third review
right so it's like the third time I'm
going over the material so study first
thing in the morning for reasons of ATP
because your your mind is kind of fresh
for reasons of circadian rhythm now
let's talk about the caveat to this
right so but not a ton so some people
say I'm not a morning person I'm a night
person or it's hard for me to wake up
fine so I think that you know when
people say that they're not a morning
person a couple of caveats to this one
is that if you're a teenager your
circadian rhythm is not geared to start
at 4:30 in the morning it's actually
geared to start somewhat later
so teenagers especially there's good
evidence that suggests that you guys
like mentally become active around like
maybe 9:00 a.m. or 10:00 a.m. so that's
an important caveat to consider so I
don't know if that means you know you
should wake up at 9:00 a.m. and then
like study from 9:00 to 11:00 that could
be hard because of school and stuff like
that
but there are biological counter points
to the argument that I'm making so let's
run over those the first is that if
you're a teenager you need more sleep
and that your mental faculties may be
primed later in the day then 4/32 caveat
is I'm a night person like there are
night owls and there are morning larks
or whatever so in my experience most
night owls have become night owls and
have adapted to being a night owl but
are not intrinsically that way
so if you look at like the way that most
night owls are born it usually starts
sometime in teen years where people stay
up really late like doing things that
they find kind of engaging or fun or
dopaminergic like they text people they
play video games they like spend time on
YouTube or whatever and so spend time on
Twitch and so essentially like don't
confuse your brain and body's ability to
adapt circadian rhythm to evolutionarily
what a human being is designed for so
humans are also evolutionarily
very very adaptable so when you're like
a physician and you work nights your
body kind of gets into the rhythm of
being active and awake and functioning
at night okay that's fine but don't
confuse your ability to adapt with like
biologically what you're geared for so
in my experience a lot of the people who
claim to be night owls when I actually
work with them for some amount of time
and recalibrate they're they're like
night alamos they actually do better
during the day than they did at night so
that's kind of an interesting caveat if
you think you're a night owl so the
third reason to study first thing in the
morning is sort of psychological stuff
and what I mean by that is you know so I
asked you guys can you study well if you
are in a burning building no so if we
think about it like what are the other
things that are gonna take a mind like
this and turn it into this so these are
this is gonna be like psychological
insults for lack of a better term right
so if you're walking down the street
like let's say at noon you go out with a
friend of yours in the end like your
friend says you're you're a dumbass I
hate you you suck at life or let's say
that you play a video game and you like
tilt because you lost and these guys are
noobs or whatever like if you wake up
first thing in the morning like most
people don't wake up tilted although
we'll talk about that in a second right
but like you know as you tilt and as is
stressful stuff happens to you
throughout the day it becomes harder to
study because you're moving from here to
here this is what tilt does so tilt
disturbs the tranquility of your mind
and makes it hard to study so the more
experiences you have throughout the day
the more psychological crap builds up
and the harder it's gonna be for you to
study because you're studying is gonna
be less efficient and then what you have
to do is essentially spend willpower or
mana let's just call it willpower mana
right so you have to expand willpower or
mana
to go to this right so if you're tilted
and you sit down to study you guys can
see this like where you have to like it
takes like effort to just sit there
because your mind doesn't want to
concentrate on that because you're like
tilted and then what happens is like
like a chunk of your ATP right so 50% of
your ATP gets reduced in going from this
state to this state so you're starting
out like you're starting out with like
half of your mana bar already spent if
you play games before you study your
mind is gonna be thinking about the game
it's gonna be thinking about tilt it's
gonna be thinking about this strategy oh
you want to do this let me do this let
me do this and then you actively have to
restrain it to kind of come back to
square one whereas if you start in the
morning you're at like 100% mana right
here right and then the other
interesting thing is that like when you
actually tilt even this state actually
costs you like 50% of your mana bar and
then going back from your like this
state to this state cost you the other
50% and then you're left with like
nothing you're like out of mana before
you even start to study and you're here
this is like your own with no Sun and so
it's hard like it sucks and then what
happens is you're trying to like read
this stuff right and then it kind of
goes here and then
sometimes it sinks in and sometimes it
bounces off right that's what happens
and you're you're kind of you're kind of
screwed like it's just gonna be super
inefficient so clarity of mind leads to
good studying and specifically the
things that you want to avoid or like
any kinds of emotional experiences any
kind of conflicts any kind of tilting
any kind of distraction so the earlier
you start like the fewer experiences you
have before you pack the book the better
off you're gonna be ideally you can also
take advantage of a couple of things
like circadian rhythm and stuff like
that so your because your mind is primed
the other interesting thing is that if
you look at religious traditions they
have things like Matins or Brahma muta
right so in Islam you have like the five
times prayers and like why do they start
so like these these are three triggered
religious traditions so you have Islam
Catholicism and Hinduism or Buddhism and
all three of them basically say that
like meditation or prayer is like a
really good time for meditation or
prayer is it like five a.m. and that's
kind of interesting right so like you
could argue that because Islam and
Catholicism share a common root they
share a common ancestor therefore there
should be similarities between those two
religions but Hinduism and Buddhism were
sort of centrally independently
developed as religions and they all came
to the same conclusion which is like
this is the best time to pray or this
time is conducive to mental activity and
that's the time around 5:00 a.m. so if
you guys ever go to like a yoga or
meditation retreat like they start early
and like why do they start early it's
because it's actually like it's easy to
meditate first thing in the morning it's
hard to meditate at noon so there's
actually you know some evidence of this
in in other ways too whether you call
that evidence or not is you know that's
questionable but it's kind of
interesting right so it's an interesting
observation at least so study first
thing in the morning and a tranquil mind
leads to more efficient studying think
about how you spend your mana okay so
now the next thing to think about okay
so now let's talk a little bit about how
knowledge works so this is gonna be hard
you
okay so I want to teach you guys how the
mind works okay so this is how your mind
works so this is the conscious mind
okay this is unconscious so what I want
you guys to think about is like so I
have a thought right so someone someone
in Chad said I wake up thinking about
video games great so let like let's
understand like how does that work
so where do your thoughts come from
right so like you have thoughts in your
conscious mind so where do they come
from
you
it's like that's kind of weird right
like so if I have a thought about a
video game like like so here's like so
what's like let's think about just a
valent so I want to play this character
in okay where does that thought come
from
okay whatever siesta whatever see mood
instinct memory stimulus desire
experience like like so the first thing
like I want you guys to just think about
like what twitch had the same so do you
guys get that like no one has a clue
like everyone sort of thinks they have
an answer but like let's just pause and
appreciate for a moment that as a
population
we don't know where thoughts come from
right like we're living life not knowing
where the thoughts in your head come
from and like no wonder life is hard
because we don't know where this kind of
crap comes from like imagine if you
could have a thought I really want to
learn geometry man rhomboids are opie
right like imagine if you woke up every
day and you had thoughts like this
instead of thoughts like this right like
like imagine how much easier your life
would be right so like this is what I
want you all to understand so what we
struggle with is that we fight against
our own thoughts right so when you wake
up and you think about fine cs:go is
better than balint or whatever you pick
your game animal crossing' right so can
anybody truly hate on Animal Crossing
maybe we'll see but so like like you
wake up in your mind starts thinking
about that about like animal crossing
and then the problem is like this
process of moving from this talk to this
thought thought requires manna
right because Manas would and so like
witnesses thought come from and is there
any way for this column to be our
natural thought instead of this column
so imagine how easy your life would be
if this if if this was the default
because that's what you guys want right
like like in the problem is that we
spend too much time thinking about video
games and and like we want to be
thinking about like like you want to be
able to study like you don't want to
fight to be able to study okay so where
does that come from right so people are
generally right so the thought sort of
bubbles up from here okay and then it
sort of forms above the thought bubble
and what I want you all to understand is
that when you learn something it's kind
of the conscious mind so let's say like
you know pi equals sorry 3.14 let's say
like other random thoughts like you know
PI R squared is like the area of a
circle right so in our conscious mind
when we're studying what we're trying to
do is essentially implant these thoughts
right so here's the border of conscious
- unconscious and it bounced off bounced
off and so depending on whether our mind
is pomf or not like it'll actually sink
in and this is what learning is so
learning is when this thought that is
conscious which is actively in your mind
gets planted into your unconscious and
then can be called up and so once PI R
squared lives down here
then it can bubble up on its own
you guys see that
but the weird thing is that like we
don't know how to plant thoughts into
our unconscious so now we get to some of
the mental health stuff right so okay
sure so show hands who thinks that
they're a piece of [ __ ] and they suck at
life right
okay so like think about this where does
that live
and then it bubbles up across the border
and then it's feels bad man all day
it's weird right like this thing lives
in your subconscious like the
perceptions that you have about yourself
live in your subconscious and they
bubble up and they tell you that you're
a bad person so let's say you're gonna
say like okay I just really study for
this test and then like this thought
bubbles up that's like yeah but like you
waited too long and you're not gonna get
an A so you might you might as well not
study because if you can't get an A
there's no point like that's kinda weird
right so let's forget let's just assume
that that's true for a second but what I
want you guys to appreciate is like when
you try to do something in life these
weird thoughts bubble up in your head
from we don't even know where it's like
how does that even work like when you're
trying to do something good for yourself
and there's a there's an interesting
interview that we did with this guy
named crucify when we were like a tiny
stream that I encourage you guys to
watch but I want you guys to realize
that like these thoughts bubble up and
like they're not they're not necessarily
real they just kind of bubble up they're
like a formula that you learned that was
sort of wrong and it sort of just
bubbles up and then as we have
experiences so these are some scars
right so like let's say you get bullied
or like let's think about it this way so
let's say that you procrastinate it and
you didn't study well enough then what
happens is I'm lazy is a conscious
thought to begin with and then what do
you do with the conscious thought it
you're lazy you plant it down here and
then it lives down here and then what it
starts to do is bubble up right so there
are times in your life where you have
learned or concluded that you're lazy
and then that thought that get gets
planted into your subconscious and then
it's like this laziness generating
machine that bubbles up it's like this
bubble generating machine that's selling
you like oh you're lazy you're lazy like
oh like you need to get a job but you're
lazy Oh like you do this but like but
I'm lazy
like I can't exercise because I'm lazy
and so it's kind of weird but like
you know at some point your mind starts
working against you because the
unconscious starts to bubble up all
kinds of weird things and learning is
the process of taking what's in the
conscious and putting into the
unconscious right that's what
understanding is you don't have to hold
it in your head you can be triggered
automatically that's what learning is
and the thoughts that we have come from
where so let me put it to you guys this
way I'll ask again
okay conscious where do our unconscious
thoughts come from
where are they born
you
exactly they're born from the conscious
okay so this is what happens right so
like thought starts here and then gets
moved down here right so it went in this
way and then it starts to bubble out
this is the process of learning learning
is this arrow right here
so if we think about what when I study
something right like I have to hold it
in my head just think about the prospect
of studying when you're learning
something you're literally holding
something in your conscious mind and if
it unless it gets until it gets planted
into your unconscious you can lose it
and you won't learn it right like you
can hold a thought in your conscious
mind like if I tell you to remember a
string of numbers 7 to 15
have you learned that string of numbers
you're holding them in your conscious
725 nine seven two five nine seven two
five nine and what you're doing is
essentially as you repeat it you're you
know the seven twenty five nine is being
bounced in bounced in or bounced out
sorry and then at one point finally it
sinks in seven two five nine oh god my
handwriting so bad
and at some point oh okay and then it
lives there and now you can recall right
so now the 7 2015 can come out but in
order to get it in there it takes some
time or and the other interesting thing
is that if I ask you to remember
something and you're paying attention
then you can learn it more easily and
what paying attention is is you know
this whole back to this thing this is
not paying attention this is paying
attention this is complete attention it
has to do with the calmness of your mind
so now we're gonna try to tie things
together so do you guys understand like
like this is what learning is learning
is the process of taking conscious
thoughts which you can only hold on to
for a limited amount of time before they
disappear and you lose them because
that's what happens in the conscious
mind right the conscious mind actually
loses things and that's why like you can
think about valor and order like
whatever you're like animal crossing or
like breath of the wild or whatever you
can think about it for a little while
and then the thought like trail trickles
off and trails away and it's gone if it
gets planted in your unconscious then it
becomes learned and once its lives in
your unconscious it starts to bubble up
so then the question becomes how can you
control what goes into your unconscious
you
so I'm talking about okay I'm you guys
are answering my question but I
instantly know so if I wanted a
particular thing to be in my unconscious
what is my strategy for putting it into
my unconscious
okay so people are talking about
repetition and reinforcement so let's
think about that right so I you guys are
right but I think there's a very
important implication there which I'm
not sure that you all have grasped maybe
you guys do okay so one way is for
repetition so seven to five nine seven
two five nine seven two five nine okay
so that's repetition so like each one is
let's say a 30% chance to bounce in so
now let's think about this the other way
that I want you guys to think about it
is so some person says let it take over
right so I want you guys said let me ask
you a question in a different way if I
spend most of my day thinking about a
particular thing what is the likelihood
that that thing will sink into my
unconscious
okay so now let me ask you guys
something what do you spend most of your
day thinking about so just think about
what thoughts are in your mind
throughout the day
and therein lies your problem and your
solution right because what bubbles up
for you is gonna be what you spend time
thinking about so you think about what
this is and that's gonna be what
automatically bubbles up so everyone's
asking about motivation right but if you
spend most of your time thinking about
games your mind is gonna give you
thoughts about games and then if you try
to study it's gonna be hard because this
is what's being generated I want you
guys to think about each thought that
you have in your mind is like a little
Factory in your subconscious and what
happens is all these factories are gonna
be producing thoughts for you which are
going to steer you in a particular
direction and so if we look at issues of
like low self-worth or self-confidence
right those people spend time if you
actually ask them how do you spend your
day they spend time thinking thoughts
that they're bad people and the the
here's the real damnedest thing right so
the more time I spend time thinking
about games this is creating more
factories and then each of these
factories is gonna think thoughts about
games and this is what addiction stuck
no purpose I don't do anything useful in
my life this is why because you have a
game producing Factory in your
unconscious that thinks thoughts about
games you reinforce that thought by
playing a video game by talking to your
friends about video games and the more
time that your mind spends occupied on
this just like if we were to spend 24
hours a day thinking about 7:25 9 that's
all that would be in our mind and if you
think negative thoughts about yourself
that too is reinforcing though that's
what's occupied in your mind in your
unconscious is learning how to generate
negative thoughts about yourself you
guys get that this is the problem in a
nutshell is each thought that you think
plants a seed in your mind and that seed
is going to turn into a tree and so if
you control your thoughts
and you're careful about how you plant
your thoughts then you'll be able to
change what you automatically think and
this is what all of you guys want right
so now I'm going to ask you guys what is
lazy
what is lazy what does that word mean
absolutely so some people are getting it
it's wrong thoughts right so this is
what you guys want lazy
thoughts so these are the thoughts of a
lazy person and they live down here and
for you guys they Belov
right these are the like call them
whatever you want to oh I don't feel
like doing this oh it's not gonna be
good enough people won't like it there's
no point in trying unless I'm sure it's
gonna work
there's no point in studying unless I
can get an A I'll apply to college when
I can get a 4.0 and show everyone how
smart I am all of those thoughts and
what you guys want cuz you look at other
people right you look at other people
and those are the people let's say that
have thoughts like I'm gonna try my best
these are the not lazy people right they
have these kinds of thoughts which you
guys just don't have you can try to
force yourself into thinking that but
you just can't think it they're the ones
that say it's about the journey not
destination they have all these kinds of
thoughts like these positive thoughts
that try hards have right and you're
like I wish and and the thing is that
you recognize like and you guys know
this right because you say I'm lazy and
they're not you're not saying it's
something that they do differently
you're saying that that person is
fundamentally different from the way
that I am and that's why I can't change
and the weird thing is you're right and
what you guys are picking up on is that
they have not lazy down here so here's
the crazy thing okay I mean
about how to say this it is actually way
harder for you to do the same thing than
a not lazy person a not lazy person to
clean their room is easy for you to
clean your room is actually harder for a
not lazy person to clean their room
requires 10% of their mana bar for a
lazy person to clean their room requires
a 90% of their mana bar and you guys are
actually right about that you're not
wrong that you guys are at a
disadvantage and the reason that you're
at a disadvantage is because of your
thought generating machines this is what
motivation is
motivation is the capacity to engage in
a behavior intrinsically right you say
I'm just not motivated those people are
motivated where does internal motivation
come from it comes from within where
within it comes from your unconscious it
comes from the thoughts that
automatically bubble up into your head
and what's completely opie is to have
positive thoughts down here instead of
negative thoughts your life becomes so
much easier when you have positive
things like just think about when you
try to do something right like when I
apply for a job and I don't get an
interview there are two thoughts that
can come up in my mind one thought is
you see you suck at life no one's ever
gonna give you an interview
that's one thought that you can natural
you got to see how that just that [ __ ]
just appears in your head it doesn't
come from anywhere it's just like you're
walking or you open there you open the
ladder you see the rejection we're sorry
we're gonna go with someone else and
that thought pops in you see there's no
point in trying do you guys see how that
thoughts just like completely automatic
just comes from nowhere and then there's
the other people right that's the you
that's the us then there's the other
people they open the rejection they're
like oh man things didn't work out I
should probably apply again that's the
other people that thought to just pops
up it just pops up it's not like they
sit and they think about it you guys see
this there's a certain automaticity of
thoughts they don't like sit and they
ponder you can sit and ponder and
pondering allows you to go from the
first thought to the second thought that
requires mana right for them
okay so job rejection thought number one
I shouldn't have bothered
thought number two I should try again
this both of these are automatic
okay and so this moving from here to
here requires mana
and what's okie about not being a lazy
person is that without spending any mana
just think about how our penises
some people get to be here without
spending any minute like how broken is
that that's cheating right and so then
the question is like how do you it's not
about this it's about moving from here
to here right so that you go down this
arrow in the first place
so broken it's about having a mind and
this is what y'all want right
you want a mind that actually instead of
keeping you from doing things that you
should do prompts you to do things that
you should do helps you to do things
that you should do motivates you to do
the things that you should do you know
it's good for you you even enjoy it but
you still don't do it why not it's
because you run down this track
so now the question is absolutely what
do you do about it
right so now I'm gonna ask you guys what
do you do about it where does this
automatic thought versus this automatic
thought where do the thoughts and our
unconscious mind come from you already
know the answer
say mana just kill ourselves brute-force
it look force it is using mana mana pots
sure we can talk about mana pots the act
of mind yeah right so once again we get
a bunch of answers some people I think
have the right answer and it's hard but
this is where the thoughts in our
unconscious come from right where does 7
to 15 I know how do you guys remember
seven to five nine because you
consciously spend time thinking about it
you
right so the the and like this is not
rocket science because here's the thing
like you guys so think about whatever
game you're thinking about now right
like what if you wake up to the dude who
said I woke up and wake up and I think
about games how does your mind know
which game to think about when it wakes
up in the morning what are you thinking
about the same game 10 years ago of
course not maybe you were maybe if it's
dota you've been thinking about do it
every morning class decade right so
where does where does the thoughts about
a particular game where does that come
from
it comes from your conscious mind
because your mind spent conscious time
thinking about that game and then since
it spends conscious time thinking about
that game thoughts about that game dig
into your subconscious and then they
start generating thought that's a
thought generating machine about that
game and they start bubbling up that's
how it works
so literally if you control or influence
the kinds of thoughts that you spend
your time thinking then you will change
the person that you are and you will
change what your your mind generates so
many people say okay but the problem
with that is just think different
thoughts that [ __ ] doesn't work right
soon so let's think about how do you
just think different thoughts so I'll
give you guys an example so therapy is a
good example so what happens in therapy
okay so what what happens in therapy is
you come to a therapist with a
particular pile of thoughts right let's
just call them negative self-worth okay
this is the pile this is the bundle of
thoughts that you have that's supposed
to be a bowtie or some [ __ ] and then
what the therapist does is you guys sit
with those thoughts and then you like
reexamine them and then literally in
your mind you consciously reframe so if
you look at something like CBT cognitive
behavioral therapy it involves like
cognitively reframing the way that you
look at things
and then what happens is you end up with
less negative self-worth and what I mean
by end up with less negative software
you start to think about yourself in a
slightly different way and that's why
CBT works because it changes what's in
the unconscious by re-examining it
through the conference this is what our
coaches try to do with you - we don't do
CBT but we help you think about things
in a different way right and then the
other things so like how else could you
change like the person that like if you
have low self-worth like what are the
other ways one is to consciously
re-examine the second is like
environment for lack of a better term
right like if you hang around with
people that's sort of like so if you
think about you know where does negative
self-worth come from it comes from let's
say like abusive parents or like bullies
at school or take your pick so let's say
you get bullied at school and that's why
like so just think about how does
bullying at school make you feel like
you have low self-worth it's because
when you get bullied in your conscious
mind there are low thought thoughts that
you're a piece of crap
and then since like you get bullied
every day and we kind of can see this -
right so here's the conscious
unconscious mind you suck and if a bully
tells you that once
NBD but when a bully tells you that
Monday Tuesday and Wednesday Thursday
you fight it Friday it goes in Saturday
it goes in and then it's the weekend and
it's social media and you ignore Twitter
and then oh look at all those low
self-worth generating thought machines
you
right complex PTSD
so then how do you combat that by
changing your environment right
hey Opie you are great at breath of the
wild
hey Opie I Love You Man
about softer
right no no so people are saying do I
have to quit games no this is just think
about this the reason that you guys play
games is because on your friends list
are the people that give you positivity
why would you quit that [ __ ] man
but positivity comes from your gaming
buds right like when you school those
noobs when you carry those [ __ ] ease in
your MOBA game of choice like wall or
dota or whatever like when you carry
those [ __ ] ease and you like 5 you one
them like yeah man
you're awesome bro
that's great
you guys get it so your environment is
really important because the people that
you hang around with it like think about
why do you think about a particular game
it's because that's the game that you've
been playing or the people that you've
been hanging out with all talk about
that game so you start playing that game
and then like your your minds become
thought generating machines when they
like about that particular game so
anything that you spend time thinking
about is gonna become a thought
generating machine so then the question
is like how should you structure your
time so that you start generating the
right kind of thoughts so now we come
back to study
got my headaches so bad chat soon okay
so what is studying studying is spending
time conscious time with particular
thoughts right so like e equals
mc-squared y equals MX plus B FG equals
G M over R squared
right if you spend time with those
thoughts that are gonna sink in and
you'll learn right studying so other
things that you can think about is like
meditations
by marcus aurelius
right there's the healthy gamer discord
and if you just spend time in places
where you're like thinking about this
stuff and thinking about this stuff like
just let's look at this for a second
like people watch this stream and it
helps them in life like how does that
work I'm not disputing that it does or
you can question how much it helps or
how much it doesn't work what I'm asking
you guys is there are people aren't our
discord and there are people who like
post on our subreddit and stuff and
there are people who are like in our
community who say that this helps like
now what is the mechanism through which
watching a youtube video helps you
right what how it might am I like is so
someone saying cult power sure let's
consider that there's a differential
diagnosis or a series of possibilities
through which our content helps people
one is my cult like charisma travels
through the internet across space and
time literally this sounds pretty cool
and then you know changes you as a human
being like that doesn't make any [ __ ]
sense man that's not how it works like
that does it
called charisma doesn't travel through
space time to affect human beings in
Europe when I'm sitting here in Texas
it's just not how it works
the reason it helps is because when
people literally watch our YouTube
videos they're conscious mind is
thinking new [ __ ] and the more that they
think about this kind of stuff like the
big advantage is not what I'm teaching
you guys but just the fact that you guys
are thinking about all you function as a
human being
now it's gonna happen is how do I work
this is how our stream helps because
this thought gets implanted and then it
levels up and then when you have to do
the dishes when you have to shower when
you need to work or study instead of the
gaming bubbling thoughts now this is
bubbling thoughts and there's a war and
now you have to spend a little bit less
mana to do this thing
right so just think about that
okay so that is so let's go back to
sunny so the last thing to kind of
understand about studying they're all
kind of sum up right is the first thing
is that you should study first thing in
the morning if at all possible and
sometimes even people who study super
late at night like they actually cross
over into that more dean's morning
circadian rhythm so if you can't wake up
in the morning that's fine I would still
say you should study first thing while
your mind is calm or clear a couple of
other things to think about is that you
know generally speaking as you go
throughout your day you're gonna
accumulate experiences that are gonna
lead to a disturbed or non tranquil mind
so you know as you you know this is how
you start out so this is how you start
out and this is how you'll end you know
the day so the earlier you do it the
better off its gonna be you can also you
know reference things like ATP and
circadian rhythm and psychological
insults stuff like that you guys sort of
understand I think everyone is sort of
understands if you play video games and
you tell it's like really hard to be
focused on studying if you play video
games and you have fun it's really hard
to be focused on studying because your
mind is just getting more wound up with
positive and negative energy and it's
just not gonna be like calm or tranquil
so study first thing in the morning
morning is better than whenever you no
other type times of the day but study
first thing when you wake up or with a
minimum of mentally stimulating activity
so like reddit Twitter whatever like
first thing in the morning before you
study is death so just stay away from
all of that social media stuff you need
to eat something shower and use the
bathroom brush your teeth whatever if
you want to meditate or exercise that's
fine but don't mentally engage like just
imagine that you have this beautiful
mana bar and you also have a buff that
if you're above 80% mana whatever you
spend your mind on gets 20% better so
the first 20 points of mana actually
have the highest yield in terms of what
you learn so first thing you should do
is study
second thing is recognize that you're
studying is a process like this right
it's
this is how studying actually works that
what you should do is is it it's like a
roll of the dice with like certain
thoughts sinking and other thoughts
thoughts not sinking and the more
emotionally activated you are the harder
it's gonna be to study and so there are
a couple of other things like if you're
in the right environment someone talked
about a library absolutely so like in a
library the whole point behind a library
is that or studying sometimes in groups
right it depends on the person
or the group that you're in but like you
know if you have a mind that's like this
so what a library is going to do is turn
it into this
right and then if you study with a group
hopefully that'll even become like this
and then if you meditate you'll end up
like this hopefully so sure its
concentration its attention but your
concentration and attention are
influenced by your emotions in your
environment so like like I study in the
same place every single time so when I
was in med school I literally I had two
desks side by side I only had one
computer which is a laptop like
literally what I would do is I take my
laptop and I move it from my playing
desk where I would play games - like I'd
pick up my laptop and I I mean the power
cord was between them so I like pick up
my laptop and I'd move it to my studying
desk and I'd open it up
I'd grab my books I'd study there and
then when I was ready to goof off I'd
move my laptop to the other desk
I'd move it like three feet away even
now this see me kind of weird right so
look you guys ready even today so here's
my setup so here's setup number one look
at that it's a second computer right
next to my first computer so here's my
first computer right so like I've got
some books over there some junk but like
I said I used to just have one and now
like that computers old but I do
different things have different
computers
okay
so control your environment control your
circumstances control your thoughts the
thoughts that go in are the thoughts
that are going to come out and so set
yourself up for the right kind of
thoughts and set yourself up for the
right kind of thoughts to go in when
you're ready to go in and then studying
is gonna be way easier right so you
don't need two computers like you can so
one dude says I made a second PC profile
perfect for years I just had one
computer but you know have the right
kind of setup for the right sort of
thing and don't play where you work and
don't work where you play and don't
sheet where you eat and don't think
where your [ __ ] so like separate those
things in your mind and studying will
get better okay
okay so let's take a quick break
hopefully that was just have
self-control no that is for the person
who says just have self-control that's
I'm saying the exact opposite remember
self-control is expending Manning what
I'm trying to tell you guys because I
don't believe like I don't think
self-control is a good idea I don't know
if you guys got this or not the lazy
person doesn't actually have more
self-control
they've got thought generating machines
that are working for them this is this
is not more self-control if you think
that my answer is just to have more
self-control you're missing the entire
point of this lecture my point is that
what you plant down here reduces the
need for self-control remember this
diagram says this is self-control right
here this is willpower its mana the goal
is not to do this the goal is to go down
this track automatically it's about
automatically thinking in the right way
does that make sense it's not just to
have self-control dude it's the entire
[ __ ] opposite so there are times
where you can spend mana to create a
positive thought environment for
yourself but like that's fine like you
can use self-control to transform a
negative thought into a positive thought
in the moment and spend a large amount
of mana doing that and that can be good
because then the positive thought will
also become a thought generating machine
in your unconscious but that's not like
a sustainable way to do it that's why
therapy is good right that's why
spending time with other people who
uplift you is good that's why spending
time literally thinking about things
that are not the things that keep you
stuck is good if you literally so I tell
people so people ask how do you build
self-confidence and my best answer is
you spend time to nature because when
you spend time with nature all of the
things that reinforce your lack of
confidence or further away it's just you
like people don't judge you like the
reason that nature helps with
self-confidence is because when you are
around other people if you have social
anxiety your mind is going to be
swimming in self judgmental and socially
anxious thoughts the more it swims into
socially anxious thoughts the further
they get planted down to more thoughts
they generate this is why I like people
with social anxiety feel stuck because
if they spend time with people it gets
worse if they don't spend time with
people it doesn't get better like I
don't even know what to do they're just
screwed anyway you try it
spend time with nature cuz Nature
doesn't care who you are nature can't
care who you are and for a while you'll
have those thought generating machines
that generate the negative thoughts
about you but unless you have the
reinforcement of other people generating
those thoughts and fueling them it's not
that the people even reinforce what you
believe they can tell you the opposite
but just even their presence causes you
to generate the thoughts it's not about
what they say it's about the thoughts
that get generated in your mind you just
can't generate thoughts about how you're
wearing the wrong clothing when you're
surrounded by trees like you can do it
for a little while you can be like man I
look like an idiot wearing this you know
hiking gear and you're gonna think that
for a few days but if there are people
around
you just can't keep on thinking that
like you literally just can't keep on
thinking it it just doesn't make sense
you just can't do it so structure your
environment so that it propagates the
right kind of thoughts play it would
absolutely become what's true
it always amazes me how good you guys
are twisting anything that I try to say
into something absolutely ridiculous
yeah man I'm gonna switch classes from
you know being like an IT professional
to homeless druid because that's what
dr. K told me to do I'm gonna be a
homeless druid cuz that's what he said
yeah man okay so we're gonna take a
quick break I'll answer one quick
question about Vata Pitta and kapha it's
a cool question someone asked what are
the best studying methods for about the
pathetic offer so it has to do with the
number of breaks that you take so
bartha's need have intense periods of
study with frequent breaks Fitness can
study for like longer amounts of time
and gafas probably need to study for
longer at a stretch because it takes
them a little while to get going so
during my two hours of studying I would
like you know study four or five
different subjects I'd spend like 30
minutes on you know each and I'd switch
frequently and so you know four-bit does
you you may need to study more than two
hours guffaws you may want to study more
to stretch it just kind of depends
you